and well i mean
as you know in the in the chapter on
culture i go into this uh because
i i think it by this stage it is clear
that there is not an aspect of western
culture that has not been
assaulted at such a fundamental and
dishonest level
that if you were to continue this game
there's just nothing left nothing
uh the british library in 2020 announced
that they were
going to create a list of
authors
whose work was in the british library
including manuscripts and important
documents by these authors who had some
connection to the slave trade or
colonialism
they produced this sort of
black list of authors
including the late poet laureate ted
hughes who died in 1998
who was born in considerable poverty in
yorkshire in the 1930s who had nothing
to do with the british empire and the
british library claimed that one of his
ancestors in the 17th century
had benefited from the slave trade i
mean this isn't even the sins of the
father debate anymore this is the sins
of the ancestor four centuries earlier
debate and by the way it turned out
among other things that the british
library can't even get researchers these
days because the researchers turned out
to have
selected a person called nicolas ferrer
who actually was opposed to the slave
trade and wasn't an ancestor of ted
hughes so they they weirdly just decided
to posthumously defame somebody
uh and this isn't at all uncommon the
tate gallery in london i i give an
example one that i might come on to is
particularly painful to me but there's
an example of um one of the masterpieces
they have in there i don't know if you
know the work but it's uh a beautiful
painting called the resurrection
cucumber by stanley spencer on the great
mid-century british artists and it's a
huge vast canvas which the tate is
exceptionally lucky to have
um painted in the 1930s and it is a
depiction of the of the physical
resurrection of the dead at the day of
judgment
and they're all coming out of their
tombs in the graveyard of his local
church in the village of cookham
and it's a profoundly moving painting to
me i've always been
i used to occasionally my lunch time
just go to sit in front of this canvas
some of the dead coming out of the tombs
are recognizably apparently neighbors of
spencers from his village but he wanted
to show the resurrection of all humanity
so he also includes you know there are
black men and women coming out of some
of the graves as well he didn't have to
do that but he wanted to show the
literal representation of the actual
physical resurrection
well the tate now has a descriptor
beside this sublime painting
saying that it is a racist painting
because whereas stanley spencer
accurately depicts his neighbors from
his village in england
the black people in the painting are
generic black people copied from
national geographic magazine of the time
well
stanley spencer didn't have any black
neighbors you know so what
so what there weren't any black people
in his village in the 1930s in england
and how dare these people but they've
done it now on everything well they're
bigger to be morally superior
yet to be morally superior to a genius
they get to be morally superior to a
genius and but what concerns me is that
they they they pull down a sublime thing
into their banal
monotone
uh utterly monomaniacal view
of of of the world which is that race is
the only thing that matters let me give
you one example after example if i may
because it's particularly painful to me
there's a wonderful painter i'm very an
artist i'm very fond of called rex
whistler
um who who uh
english artists from the early 20th
century everybody adored him he was
clearly an exceptionally lovable human
being and an exceptionally talented
artist and his first artwork was a mural
for the tape that he he did in his early
20s and he worked all around the clock
for months and months on end to complete
this mural called in pursuit of rare
meets it's a fantasy a beautiful fantasy
landscape and an arcadian landscape that
goes around all four walls of the
gallery
and a couple of years ago a group whose
whose name uh was white pube
only consisting of a couple of people
decided that this mural was racist and
they decided it because of two figures
uh one of whom was a chinese figure they
said was generic and the other was
because in one corner of the forest in
one of the bits of the rest of a tiny
figure about two inches high is a is a
young black boy clearly in distress
being pulled on a chain by a woman in a
white fully frock
now clearly rex whistler he always
included sort of ugly things like this
there's a drowning child a white
drowning white child elsewhere in it
it's clearly at an arcadia ego
you know that's clearly what he's saying
he was always saying this all of his
work always included this you know
there'd be a two more he'd even painted
himself in things as a lowly street
sweeper you know and he had a wonderful
sense of humor and a wonderful
and dark sense of the carbon nature of
all things even in arcadia
this was decided two years ago by the
tate to be a racist painting
and they have closed the room until
further notice they looked into whether
or not they could actually remove after
100 years actually remove this from the
walls of the gallery
and they it seems that they can't
because part of it's on plaster so
they've locked the room
and the reason i mind this among many
other reasons
is because they have posthumously
declared rex whistler to be a racist
they said that he is he reflected the
racist attitudes of his time
rex whistler died on his first day in
action in normandy in 1944.
how dare these people do this
how dare they do it to everybody in our
past
to all of our heroes to all of our
artistic heroes how dare they say that
the story of the west is purely a story
of
racism
and xenophobia and and colonialism and
slavery how dare they not even bother to
weigh that up as i say in one point in
the book weigh it up against just
let you know let's name a few cities
paris florence rome venice just for
starters how dare they not be able to
even weigh up the achievements that have
come from this allegedly
unremittingly terrible past but worse
than that and the point i really wanted
to make jordan is
what they are driving us to and i feel
it very very strongly myself is
how dare you do this to our ancestors
how dare you do this to all of our
heroes and then the follow on thought is
this
if you have no respect for my ancestors
i see no reason why i should have
respect for yours
if you have no respect for my past and
my culture
i don't see why i should continue to say
that i have respect for yours
if you have nothing good to say about me
why should i
have anything good to say about you
and what i suggest is that in the west
at the moment we are in a potentially
short holding pattern a holding pattern
based on politeness
or as kenneth clark lord clarke of
civilization put it that fundamental
aspect of western culture courtesy
we are in a period of courtesy
where we have been willing to say
[Music]
okay you can keep rampaging through the
past of the west and assaulting my
ancestors and insulting my predecessors
and saying all of these negative things
about my past and i am pretending for
the time being or saying
out of courtesy that you can do this and
i will put up with it for a time
and i will even say and there are these
other ways of knowing and so on but
there is a moment there where that
absolutely stops and as i say at the end
of the book as you know jordan i say
there's a very clear place where you can
do that
the courtesy stops at a certain point
and it stops when you say you know what
this politeness seems not to be working
for us so let's go for the impolite
things and the impolite things that can
be said are legion and nobody should
want to go there but that's where we're
being led